# Virtualization 101 
Virtualizacija je pokretanje vise OS na jednom serveru.
Ranije je hardwer mogao da pokrene jedan proces, tako da pokretanje vise OS bi kreshovalo.

Virtualizacija je u pocetku bila softwerska. 
- Emulated virtualization - Software had hypervisor, and was running virtual machine with virtual allocation. Hypervisor was running process binary translation and was manipulating guest OS commands. OS isnt aware of virtualization.
- Para-virtualization - Instead of hypervisor. Source call is modified to call hypervisor using hyper-calls. OS is modified for hypervisor. OS is kinda aware of virtualization
- Hardware assisted virtualization - CPU is aware of virtualization, and hypervisor communicates directly with CPU
- SR-IOV Single root virtualization - allows harware (ie. network card) to represent itself as multiple cards. So no translation happens at hypervisor. Hardware is aware of virtualization

AWS uses advanced hypervisor stack called Nitro which enabled EC2 features.

## EC2
Its a virtual machine (OS + Resources). They run on EC2 Hosts, psychical servers.
Hosts can be **shared** and **dedicated**.

Hosts run in AZ. So EC2 is AZ resilient.
AZ have resource but also local storage **instance store**. But this is on instance and if gets moved to another host, storage is lost.

2 Types networking - Reliant on host in AZ:
- storage networking
- data networking

Elastic Block Store - EBS
Also running in instance. Here you can allocate volumes.

If you restart instance, it stays on host.
But if you stop and start, or instance is broken - That will move to another instance but same AZ.

You can migrate via snapshots and IAM. 
You cant cross AZ.
#### EC2 is good for
- Traditional OS+Application
- Good for application if you have certain configuration you need
- Good for Long-Running Compute requirements
- Server-style application waiting for incoming connections
- that need burst or steady state load requirements.
- Monolithic application stacks
- Disaster recovery

For other needs there stuff like 
- elastic container service 
- lambda.

### EC2 Types of instance
Exam question: C type is better than M type
- https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/
- https://ec2instances.info/

Different types of performance.
Raw CPU, Memory, Local Storage capacity & Type
Resource ratios for different needs
Storage and Data network Bandwidth
System architecture/vendor

EC Categories
- General purpose - default, diverse workload, equal resource
- Compute Optimized - media processing, HPC, scientific modeling, gaming, ML
- Memory optimized - large in-memory databases
- Accelerated computing - Hardware GPU, programmable gate arrays FPGA
- Storage Optimized - Sequential and Random IO

Instance type: **R5dn.8xlarge**
- **R** - Instance family for type of computing
- **5** - Generation. C4 is 4th generation, but now its 5. Usually better performance. Pick latest if you can, if available in AZ.
- **8xlarge** - instance Size, micro, large... Better larger number of smaller instance sizes.
- dn - additional capabilities. ie n network optimized.

# SSH vs EC2 Instance Connect
## SSH Client
```
EC2>Key pairs>Create key pair
A4L, .pem
click one-click deployment link

```
With EC2Connect you only need identity permissions.
Go to security group and locate Inbound rules
click on cross MyIP
try again connect with ssh
byt ec2 connect doesnt work anymore
try eC2 IP address for you but remove MyIP

using GUI only with public instance
ssh can with private
session manager doesnt have limitations
IP address range can be for sysadmin ops

# Storage Refresher
