# AI vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning
AI is branch of Computer science that focuses on building smart and intelligent machines
- non-intelligent: bike
- intelligent machines: smart car, google assistant. Make decisions themselves

Machine Learning is technique of AI that can learn from data without explicitly programmed.
ML learns from the data, we dont tell exactly.

Deep Learning is subfield of ML that uses Neural Networks to learn from the data.

## Types of Machine Learning
1. **Supervised** - Learns from labelled data
   - Example: Grouped pics mangoes and apples are labeled and given to ML model. 
   - Result: Model is able to take input image and determine if its an orange or apple 
2. **Reinforcement** - is area of ML how intelligent agent take actions in environment to maximize its rewards.

    There are 4 aspects:
    Agent in environment will do action and get rewards for it.
    PC (Agent) will play chess. And for each step gets reward. Games, autonomous system like car and drones are based on reinforced learnin.
  - Environment
  - Agent
  - Action
  - Reward
3. **Unsupervised** - Unlabelled data
- Example: Ungrouped images of apples and images. ML model will determine groups  
---
## Supervised learning - Learns from labelled data:
Two subtypes:
1. Classification: Predicting a class or discrete values (Male or Female, True or False)
Types of algorithms:
- Decision tree
- Random Forest classification
- K-nearest neigh
2. Regression - predicting continuous values (Salary, age, price)
- Logistic R.
- Polynomial R.
- Support Vector Machines R.
---
## Unsupervised Learning - Learns from unlabelled data:
Groups data in similar packs, we are not giving a label. And ML model will create groups

Two subtypes:
- **Clustering** - Grouping similar data points
   Cluster users based on user usage is it calls or mobile data and offer different packages
   
   Types of algorithms:
   - K-Means Clustering
   - Hierarchical Clustering
   - Principal Component Analysis (PCA) - which features, columns, row are important for us
- **Association** - Find important relationship between data points
   Customer 1 and 2 when they buy milk they also buy bread. So if Customer 3 buys milk we can recommend the bread.
   This is how Netflix recommendations work.
   
   Types of algorithms:
   - Apriori 
   - Eclat
---
## Deep Learning
Subfield of ML that uses Artificial Neural Networks to learn from data.
Data is passed through layers of neurons. Neurons are small processing units

With DL we dont have to extract the feature manually.

DeepMind made game-playing AI systems.
Diagnose Diabetic Retinopathy. it was able to predict if f/m or other diesese. 

Healthcare
Autonomous cars
Comupter vision - face recognision in phones
Natural language processing





